
= boc

== Summary

Binding of caller.

== Synopsis

  require 'boc'

  class A
    def f
      p eval("x", Boc.value)
    end
  end

  Boc.enable A, :f
  x = 33
  A.new.f  # => 33

== Install

  % gem install boc

Or from inside an unpacked .tgz download, <code>rake install</code> /
<code>rake uninstall</code>.

== Description

Binding of caller: obtain a caller's binding.

MRI 1.9.2 or JRuby 1.6+ is required. Support for other Ruby platforms
is a goal.

== <code>Binding.of_caller</code>

<code>require 'boc/binding_of_caller'</code> will define
<code>Binding.of_caller</code> (not present by default).

  require 'boc/binding_of_caller'

  class A
    def f
      Binding.of_caller do |bind|
        p eval("x", bind)
      end
    end
  end

  Boc.enable A, :f
  x = 33
  A.new.f  # => 33

This is not an actual compatibility layer since the call to +enable+
is still necessary. <code>Binding.of_caller</code> is merely a
convenience method for existing 1.8 code.

== Links

* Home: http://quix.github.com/boc
* Feature Requests, Bug Reports: http://github.com/quix/boc/issues
* Manual Download: http://github.com/quix/boc/archives/master
* Repository: http://github.com/quix/boc

== Implementation

When <code>Boc.enable(A, :f)</code> is called it first makes an alias,

  class A
    alias_method :f__impl, :f
  end

Following that, +f+ is replaced by native method whose only tasks are
to set <code>Boc.value</code> and then call +f__impl+.

== Background

After adapting the old continuation-based
<code>Binding.of_caller</code> to 1.9.2
(http://quix.github.com/binding_of_caller), I found the result
unsatisfying. There were syntax restrictions surrounding the use of
it, and though workaroundable they raised practical problems.

While a caller's binding might be obtained by accessesing VM innards,
this approach would be subject to future breakage. The implementation
presented herein is a compromise. In exchange for restricting
functionality (the additional requirement of +enable+),
binding-of-caller may be implemented straightforwardly with only the
public C API, meaning that it should work in future MRI releases.

== Author

* James M. Lawrence < quixoticsycophant@gmail.com >

== License
  
  Copyright (c) 2011 James M. Lawrence. All rights reserved.
  
  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
  obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files
  (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
  including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
  publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
  and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
  subject to the following conditions:
  
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
  included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
  
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
  NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
  BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
  ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
  CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
  SOFTWARE.

